+++
title = "Publications"
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00

# List format.
#   0 = Simple
#   1 = Detailed
#   2 = APA
#   3 = MLA
#   4 = Stream
list_format = 3

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++

1. Umut Salgin Goksen, Sevgi Sarigul, Patrick Bultinck, Wouter Herrebout, Ilknur Dogan, Kemal Yelekci, Gulberk Ucar, Nesrin Gokhan Kelekci, (2019), “Absolute configuration and biological profile of pyrazoline enantiomers as MAO inhibitory activity”, Chirality, 31, 21-23, https://doi.org/10.1002/chir.23027, (IF:1.833).
2. Abdullahi Ibrahim Uba, Kemal Yelekçi (2019). Homology modeling of human histone deacetylase 10 and design of potential selective inhibitors. Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, https://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2018.1521747. (IF: 3.107)
3. Augustine S. Samorlu, Kemal Yelekçi, Abdullahi Ibrahim Uba (2019). The design of potent HIV-1 integrase inhibitors by a combined approach of structure-based virtual screening and molecular dynamics simulation. Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics. https://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2018.1557559 (IF: 3.107).
4. Abdullahi Ibrahim Uba, Kemal Yelekçi (2018). Identification of potential isoform- selective histone deacetylase inhibitors for cancer therapy: a combined approach of structure-based virtual screening, ADMET prediction and molecular dynamics simulation assay. Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, 36:12, 3231- 3245. http://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2017.1384402 (IF: 3.107).
5. Abdullahi Ibrahim Uba, Kemal Yelekçi (2018). Pharmacophore-based virtual screening for identification of potential selective inhibitors of human histone deacetylase 6. Computational Biology and Chemistry, 77, 318-330. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2018.10.016, (IF: 1.412).
6. Abdullahi Ibrahim Uba, Kemal Yelekçi (2018). Carboxylic acid derivatives display potential selectivity for human histone deacetylase 6: structure-based virtual screening, molecular docking and dynamics simulation studies. Computational Biology and Chemistry, 75: 131-142. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2018.05.004. (IF: 1.412).
7. Göknil Coşkun, Teodora Djikic, Taha Hayal, Nezaket Türkel, Kemal Yelekçi, Fikrettin Şahin, Ş Küçükgüzel, “Synthesis, Molecular Docking and Anticancer Activity of Diflunisal Derivatives as Cyclooxygenase Enzyme Inhibitors, Molecules 2018, 23, 1969; 2018 doi:10.3390/molecules23081969, (IF:3.09).
8. Işıl Çoruh, Özge Çevik, Kemal Yelekçi, Teodora Djikic, Ş Güniz Küçükgüzel Synthesis, anticancer activity, and molecular modeling of etodolac‐thioether derivatives as potent methionine aminopeptidase (type II) inhibitors Archiv der Pharmazie,3-4, 351, 2018. https://doi.org/10.1002/ardp.201700195 (IF:2.29).
9. Teodora Djikic, Yasmina Martí, Francesca Spyrakis, Thorsten Lau, Paolo Benedetti, Gavin Davey, Patrick Schloss & Kemal Yelekci (2018). Human dopamine transporter: the first implementation of a combined in silico/in vitro approach revealing the substrate and inhibitor specificities, Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics, DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2018.1426044, (IF: 3.107).
10. Abdullahi Ibrahim UBA, Kemal YELEKÇİ (2017). Exploration of the binding pocket of histone deacetylases: the design of potent and isoform-selective inhibitors”, Turk J Biol 41, TÜBİTAK doi:10.3906/biy-1701-26. (IF: 0.651).
11. S.T. Karadeniz, S.U. Akgul, Y. Ogret, H.S. Ciftci, A. Bayraktar, H. Bakkaloglu, Y. Caliskan, K. Yelekci, A. Turkmen, A.E. Aydin, F.S. Oguz, M. Carin, and F. Aydin, “Corrected Panel-Reactive Antibody Positivity Rates for Hypersensitized Patients in Turkish Population With Calculated Panel-Reactive Antibody Software”, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.transproceed.2017.01.032, Transplantation Proceedings, 49, 445e447 (2017). (IF: 0.806).
12. Karadeniz, Sedat Tanju; Akgul, Sabahat; Ciftci, Hayriye Senturk; Yelekci, Kemal; et al.“Epitope Based Hla Matching By Using Antibody Reactivity With High Resolution Allele Typing And HLA_match maker Algorithm Based Software”Transplant international, 30 Special Issue: SI Supplement: 2 Pages: 302-302 Meeting Abstract, 2017. (IF: 3.196).
13. Evranos-Aksoz, Begum; Ucar, Gulberk; Tas, Sadik Taskin; Yelekci, Kemal; et al.“New Human Monoamine Oxidase an Inhibitors with Potential Anti-Depressant Activity: Design, Synthesis, Biological Screening and Evaluation of Pharmacological Activity”, Combinatorial chemistry & high throughput screening, 20 Issue: 6 Pages: 461-473, 2017. (IF: 1.205).
14. Evranos-Aksoz, Begum; Ucar, Gulberk; Yelekci, Kemal, “Design, Synthesis and hMAO Inhibitory Screening of Novel 2-Pyrazoline Analogues” Combinatorial chemistry & high throughput screening, 20, Issue: 6 Pages: 510-521, 2017. (IF: 1.205).
15. Katarina Nikolic, Lazaros Mavridis, Teodora Djikic, Jelica Vucicevic, Danica Agbaba, Kemal Yelekci andJohnB.O.Mitchell. “Drug Design for CNS Diseases: Polypharmacological Profiling of Compounds Using Cheminformatic, 3D-QSAR and Virtual Screening Methodologies” http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fnins.2016.00265. Front. Neurosci., 10 June 2016. (IF: 3.877).
16. Evranos-Aksöz B, Baysal İ, Yabanoğlu-Çiftçi S, Djikic T, Yelekçi K, Uçar G, Ertan R. “Synthesis and Screening of Human Monoamine Oxidase-A Inhibitor Effect of New 2-Pyrazoline and Hydrazone Derivatives.“. Arch Pharm (Weinheim). Oct;348(10):743-56. doi: 10.1002/ardp.201500212. Aug 21, (2015). (IF: 2.288).
17. F. Pinar Turkmenoglu, İpek Baysal, Samiye Ciftci-Yabanoglu, Kemal Yelekci, Hamdi Temel, Salih Paşa, Nurten Ezer, İhsan Çalış and Gulberk Ucar., “Flavonoids from Sideritis Species: Human Monoamine Oxidase (hMAO) Inhibitory Activities, Molecular Docking Studies and Crystal Structure of Xanthomicrol.” Molecules Journal, Apr 23;20(5):7454-73. doi: 10.3390/molecules20057454. (2015). (IF: 3.098).
18. Malcomson T, Yelekci K, Mar Borrello MT, Ganesan A, Semina E, De Kimpe R, Mangelinckx S, Ramsay RR., “cis-Cyclopropylamines as mechanism-based inhibitors of Monoamine Oxidases”, FEBS Journal, DOI: 10.1111/febs.13260, (2015). (IF: 4.53).
19. Evranos-Aksöz B, Yabanoğlu-Çiftçi S, Uçar G, Yelekçi K, Ertan R. “Synthesis of some novel hydrazone and 2-pyrazoline derivatives: Monoamine oxidase inhibitory activities
and docking studies.” Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2014. 1;24(15):3278-84. (DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2014.06.015) (2014). (IF: 2.442).
20. Kemal Yelekçi, Bahanur Örtmen “De Novo Design of Potent and Selective Neuronal Nitric Oxide Synthase (nNOS) Inhibitors by a Fragment-Based Approach”, Journal of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, 2014, 1 (4), 68-73.
21. Kemal Yelekçi, Bora Büyüktürk, Nurdan Kayrak, “In silico identification of novel and selective monoamine oxidase B inhibitors”. J Neural Transm 2013. 120:853–858, (DOI 10.1007/s00702-012-0954-0) (2013). (IF: 2.779).
22. Umut Salgın-Gökşen, Nesrin Gökhan-Kelekçi, Samiye Yabanoğlu-Çiftçi, Kemal Yelekçi, Gülberk Uçar, “Synthesis, molecular modeling, and in vitro screening of monoamine oxidase inhibitory activities of some novel hydrazone derivatives”. J Neural Transm . 2013. 120:883–891, (DOI 10.1007/s00702-013-0968-2) (2013). (IF: 2.779).
23. Umut Salgın-Gökşen, Samiye Yabanoğlu-Çiftçi, Ayşe Ercan, Kemal Yelekçi, Gülberk Uçar, Nesrin Gökhan-Kelekçi, “Evaluation of selective human MAO inhibitory activities of some novel pyrazoline derivatives”. J Neural Transm, 2013. 120:863–873, (DOI 10.1007/s00702-013-0980-6). (2013). (IF: 2.779).
24. Safiye Sağ Erdem, Seyhan Türkkan, Kemal Yelekçi, Nesrin Gökhan-Kelekçi, “Insights into the binding mode of new N-substituted pyrazoline derivatives to MAO-A: docking and quantum chemical calculations”. J Neural Transm, 2013. 120:859–862, (DOI 10.1007/s00702-012-0950-4) (2013). (IF: 2.779).
25. Gamze Bora Tatar, Tenzile Deniz Tokluman, Kemal Yelekçi, Hayat Yurter,“Power of inhibition activity screening and 3D molecular modeling approaches in HDAC 8 inhibitor design”. Turk J Chem, 35. 2011. 861 – 870. (doi:10.3906/kim-1107-34), (2011), (IF: 1.377).
26. Ebru Demet Akdoğan, Burak Erman, Kemal Yelekçi. “In silico design of novel and highly selective lysine-specific histone demethylase inhibitors”. Turk J Chem 35. 2011. 523-542, (doi:10.3906/kim-1102-985) (2011). (IF: 1.377).
27. Nesrin Gökhan-Kelekçi, Ö. Özgün Şimşek, Ayşe Ercan, Kemal Yelekçi, Z. Sibel Şahin Şamil Işık, Gülberk Uçar, A. Altan Bilgin. “Synthesis and molecular modeling of some novel hexahydroindazole derivatives as “potent monoamine oxidase inhibitors”. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry. 2009, 17(4), 5219-5228. (2009). (IF: 2.881).
28. Gamze Bora-Tatar, Didem Dayangaç-Erden, Ayhan S. Demir, Sevim Dalkar, Kemal Yelekçi, Hayat Erdem-Yurter, “Molecular modifications on carboxylic acid derivatives as potent histone deacetylase inhibitors: Activity and docking studies”. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry. 2009. 17(18), 6761-6772. (2009). (IF: 2.881).
29. Didem Dayangaç-Erden, Gamze Bora, Peruze Ayhan, Çetin Kocaefe, Sevim Dalkara, Kemal Yelekçi, Ayhan S. Demir, Hayat Erdem-Yurter, “Histone Deacetylase Inhibition Activity and Molecular Docking of (E )-Resveratrol: its Therapeutic Potential in Spinal Muscular Atrophy”. Chemical Biology & Drug Design. 2009, 37(3), 355-364. (2009). (IF: 2.328).
30. Nesrin Gökhan-Kelekçi, Semra Koyunoğlu, Samiye Yabanoğlu, Kemal Yelekçi, Özen Özgen, Gulberk Uçar, Kevser Erol, Engin Kendi, Akgul Yeşilada,”New Pyrazoline Bearing 4(3H)-quinazolinone Inhibitors of Monoamine Oxidase: Synthesis, biological
evaluation, and structural determinants of MAO-A and MAO-B selectivity“. Bioorganic & MedicinalChemistry. 2009. 17(2), 675-689. (IF: 2.881).
31. Kemal Yelekçi, Özlem Karahan, Mustafa Toprakçı “Docking of novel reversible monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors: efficient prediction of ligand binding sites and estimation of inhibitors thermodynamic properties (ΔG and Ki)”. Journal of Neural Transmission, 2007.114: 725-732. (2007). (IF: 2.779).
32. Kemal Yelekçi, S. Erdem, Ö. Karahan, F. Uyar,“Synthesis and Thermal Reactions of -Acetoxy-2,6,6-Trimethylbicyclo[3.1.0] hexane: Elucidation of the Mechanism of the Reaction with Coputational Approach”, Journal of Molecular Structure: THEOCHEM, 814 (2007) 61-73. (IF: 1.371).
33. Yelekci K, Erdem SS , “Thermal rearrangement of 2-acetoxy-2,6,6 trimethylbicyclo[3.1.0]hexane: Theoretical elucidation of the mechanism”, ABSTRACTS OF PAPERS OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY Volume: 234 Meeting Abstract: 326-COMP Published: AUG 19 2007.
34. Yelekci K, Bora G, Dayangac-Erden D, et al.“COMP 297-Experimental and molecular docking simulation studies of Histone deacetylases (HDACs) enzyme inhibitors”, ABSTRACTS OF PAPERS OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY Volume: 234 Meeting Abstract: 297-COMP Published: AUG 19 2007.
35. Yelekci, K, Dayangac-Erden D, Ayhan P, Bora G, et al.“MEDI 333-Histone deacetylase inhibition activity of resveratrol and its analogs”, ABSTRACTS OF PAPERS OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY Volume: 234 Meeting Abstract: 333-MEDI Published: AUG 19 2007.
36. Safiye Sağ Erdem, Özlem Karahan, İbrahim Yıldız and Kemal Yelekçi .“A computational study on the amine-oxidation mechanism of monoamine oxidase: Insight into the polar nucleophilic mechanism”. Organic & Biomolecular Chemistry, 2006, 4, 646-658. (2006). (This article was made the cover of this journal.) (IF: 3.423).
37. Mustafa Toprakçı, Kemal Yelekçi. “Docking studies on Monoamine Oxidase-B inhibitors: estimation of inhibition constants (Ki) of a series of experimentally tested compounds”. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters, 15. 2005. 4438-4446. (2005). (IF: 2.442).
38. S. S. Erdem; K. Yelekçi,“Computer Modeling of Oxygen Containing Heptylamines as Monoamine Oxidase Inactivators” Journal of Molecular Structure (Theochem) 572 (2001), 97-106. (IF: 1.371).
39. K. Yelekçi; R.B. Silverman “Effect of the Locus of the Oxygen Atom in Amino Ethers on The Inactivation of Monoamine Oxidase B”. J. Enzyme Inhibition. 1998, 13, 31-39. (1998). (IF: 1.086).
40. V.J. Drose; J.C.G. Woo; W.P.Hawe; B.M. Hoffman; R:B: Silverman; K. Yelekçi “Observation of a Flavin Semiquinone in the Resting State of Monoamine Oxidase by Electron Paramagnetic resonance and Electron Nuclear Double Resonance”. Biochemistry 1996, 35, 11085-11091. (1996). (IF: 2.997).
41. K.Yelekçi, “Synthesis of 1-Aminocyclobutane Derivates”Turkish, J.Chem. 1992, 16(1), 18-28. (IF: 1.377).
42. K.Yelekçi; X.Lu; R.B.Silverman, “Electron Spin resonance Studies of Monoamine Oxidase B. First Direct Evidence for a Substrate Radical Intermediate”, J. Am.Chem.Soc. 1989,111,1338-1340. (IF: 14.357).
43. W.D. Huntsman; J.P.Chen; K.Yelekçi; T.K.Yin; L.J.Zhang, “Thermal Aromatization of Alkylidenecyclopentenes and Related Hydrocarbons “J. Org. Chem.1988,53,4357-4363. (IF: 4.805).
44. Yelekçi, K.; H. Evliya.“Isolation and identification of 7-tricosanol from the fruits of Melia azedarach L. tree”, Doğa Bilim Dergisi, Temel Bilim. volume 6, 1982, 45-51.
45. Yelekçi, K.; Acımış, M.; Soran, H., 1981. “The effect of the extract obtained from the beries of Melia azedarach L. To pine catterpillar (Thaumetopoea Pityocampa Schiff, Lepidoptera: Thaumetopoeidae), Doğa Bilim Dergisi, Temel Bilim, volume 5: 69-71.
